Hi and welcome back.
So let's jump right into the code.
We saw the different variants that we can have for import and we talked about the misconception that
if you import just a single symbol or a couple of symbols from a module you're actually making things
more efficient because you're not loading the entire module.
Well for simple modules that's not the case.
And let's go ahead and just try it out and we're going to import something from a module and see what
happens.
So I'm going to want to look at importances because the problem with the Jupiter notebook is that it
tends to import a lot of stuff.
So let's just see what's in there.
And also the keys in the arm modules just to see what it is for we have an off a vertical order and
you'll notice there's a bunch of stuff right.
You get all these python things.
OK.
We're not going to use those but then you'll notice that we also have down here a lot of the standard
library is already loaded.
Like for example collection's is already been loaded.
Math has been loaded.
C math has not been loaded.
Right.
We don't have the math anyway.
OK.
We have CME The R and then calendar.
So no C math anywhere but math for example also gets loaded.
Right.
The import lib gets loaded the Sisk gets loaded.
I mean all that stuff is already preloaded for us so we can't use any of those to test this out.
So we'll use the mouse.
And let's just make sure that C math is not in the system modules.
It's just check it this way and it's not.
Let's also make sure that C math is not in Gogol's right on global namespace and it's not.
So we find it hasn't been loaded at all and we don't have any reference to it or to some C math symbol
at least in our Global's.
So now let's go ahead and say from C-Max import DXP So we're just going to impled the exponential function
from C math.
So now we can check we can say you know is C math in Goebels.
And the answer is false.
It is not an Global's because we know from the lecture that when we do this from C math and bought the
XP The only thing that gets added to our namespace is XP Nazim.
In fact let's double check that.
And as you can see XP is in our Global's and what is it.
It's a function that happens to point to this memory address so we can look at the idea XP.
And it's this over here.
But let's look at the sists modules.
Let's now see if the math is in six modules.
And the answer is it is.
It's been loaded in the CIS modules it loaded the entire C math module or at least everything that was
being exported from Sema.
Everything's in there.
Now I don't have a reference to see math in my Goebels so I can't say C math taught you xP.
I have to call.
Just you don't get XP so I can say XP of two plus two J for example and I get that response.
But I can say see math dots XP or maybe c math dot sign because that you know we don't have the math
as a symbol in our global namespace but we can add it we can just say C math equals system of modules
and we know that C math is and says modules.
So now we have CMAC
in Goebels.
Ted that's true.
So now we can call C math.
XP right.
So we can call C math you XP on two plus two J for example.
And that works just fine.
And now to show you that the entire C math module was actually loaded let's call it different function
within import that one right.
We didn't say from C math import DXP commas sine we didn't do that right.
We just imported Expwy.
So let's take a look at this one.
That works too.
How about C mapped out pi that works as well right.
C math of cosign that's in there as well.
Etc. so as you can see when even though we said Francey math important DSP it did not do a partial import
of C math.
Python has no way of knowing you know this module C math which functions are you.
You know all my supposed to import the XP.
OK but maybe it depends on some other stuff in the module.
How is it supposed to know what pieces what.
You know chunks of that code.
It has to import it doesn't it just imports the entire module.
Now little different packages but we'll come back to that.
Now what about the impulse.
Don't let's go ahead and take a look at that and see why that's a problem.
Let's say a white can deal cause problems let's say I say from sci math impled stuff.
So now that every single symbol that was exported from C math in my global namespace can take a look
at our Global's and you'll see that we have to get to the end.
We've got all these things top age tensest square root sign a sign poler PI phase.
All these came from the C math library logged ten log and so on.
You'll notice we got square root and we have sine.
OK.
And which ones are they pointing to.
C math taught sign.
C math of square root and so on.
So now I could say you know sign of two plus two J.
That works just fine.
But now let me do this.
Let me say from math import stamp.
And now let's look at the Global's again.
Again this to scroll all the way down.
And let's take a look.
He has all square root symbol but you can see now it's using the math square root symbol sine is now
using the math sign symbol.
That's because math and C math had the same symbol name.
So when we imported math it changed our you know our global reference on namespace module's namespace
sign symbol 2.
Now to be math doth sign.
So now if I try and say sign of two plus two J.
That's going to fail because the real you know math library can't handle complex numbers.
It can only handle reals.
So that's the problem with doing the import stuff.
It's very easy to step over a previous imports toes especially if you don't know exactly everything
that's in the module.
For some of these models there's a lot of symbols being exploited.
And so you run the risk of stepping over your own toes.
Now if I have something like from time import lbf calendar and you know I import math then you know
and some other things while they don't have a power of countering them I kind of know that.
So I'm fairly safe doing that and I'll do this if I'm lazy I don't want to have to type timed up counter
every time.
But really in this case there's very little risk associated with it.
So there's nothing wrong with saying from time impled a specific item but you can run the same into
the same problem as we did with the impled stuff.
That problem still exists.
It's not the you know the stuff that causes the problem.
It's the fact that you're importing symbols directly into your namespace and those symbols may have
different things.
For example if I say from seemin AF import fine.
OK.
Now I can look at the sign that's in the C math and if I say later on from math import fine.
And now I look at sign you can see that it's changed to the math sine function.
So again I've stepped over my own my own toes this way.
So of course what you can do is you can use an alias.
You might say this is you know from C math import C underscore sine.
Well sorry.
Sign.
As C underscore sign so aliasing it and then this one will importer's sign.
OK so now we have a c sine function that points to see math.
And here we have an unsigned function that points to the regular real math.
All right so that's the variance that we have for impuls.
And as you can see every time it imports the entire module.
So you don't have any efficiency by only importing specific symbols out of the module and let's take
a look now at efficiency's since we started talking about that let's go ahead and see things about efficiency.
Now one of the things that's often mentioned is that you should never do something like this.
That say I have my fonk and I'm going to import math inside my function and now I'm going to return
math.
Square root have 8.
Ok whatever it was passed in basic and is wrapping the square root function in my own function.
And that's frowned upon and is actually good reasons for framing upon that.
One is that it's now difficult to know what's being imported and where functions are coming from.
Because you don't have a single location to look at all the dependencies of the module.
This module right now.
You know let's say I done import collections.
OK in here.
So it's not easy for me to know if I'm looking at the module as a whole what are the dependencies and
this module now has a dependency on collections because I'm importing it and maybe I'm using it you
know down here somewhere.
Maybe I'm you know what I'm saying from collections
import name top and then it's here.
And you know maybe I'll create a new name Toppo and I'll put that in the response back.
Because very often remember we want to return multiple values from a function using a name top here
doesn't make sense I'm just returning one value but you could have something like this.
And if you do.
Now you have a dependency on that collections module but it's not easy to see if I'm just scanning the
code very quickly I would have to actually spot this inside one of the functions.
So that's one of the main reasons why it's frowned upon it's really just readability right.
The Python compiler doesn't care.
It sees the reference here.
OK fine.
I'm going to add a name topple to the namespace of my phunk.
It's not going to go into the global namespace but it's still going to go ahead and load the module
if it wasn't loaded already and then it's going to add name topple to the local namespace of my phunk.
It's going to be in this local's right namespace.
So again just readability can be an issue here.
But there's also an efficiency thing you know are we re-importing the math module every time.
If we do this frankly import math or we re-importing the math module every time.
Well no we're not.
Because the first time it encounters math it will load it and put it in that says modules.
But that object now exists.
So the second time that so we call this function a second time around it does the import math again.
So the overhead there is to go in C insists modules.
If the math module exists already if it doesn't then yes it will go loaded.
But the second time around the math module has been loaded and it's not going to go and reload the math
module all it's going to do.
It's going to get the reference to the math module from system modules and add it to my local scope
of my function.
That's the overhead not importing the module just adding the reference to the namespace.
And there is some overhead associated with that but it's really not as large as you might think.
So let's go ahead and actually time some stuff.
So here's what I want to do is I'm going to say from time import of color and yes I'm using a from because
I know that I'm not going to run into any kind of collisions.
And then I also want from collections import names to topple.
I'm going to want to use that if I can type it.
So from collections import named toppled and I'm going to write a small utility function that we'll
use to compare two timings to each other.
So I'm going to create a name topcoat called timings and it's going to have these fields timing one
timing to the absolute difference between the two timings and the relative difference as a percentage
between the two timings.
OK so I've got that and now I'm going to write you know compare timings function where I'll give it
to timings timing 1 and timing 2 and I'm going to want to find the relative difference between them
as a percentage.
So I'm going to take timing to minus timing one.
So we'll divide that by timing 1 and timing 1 and multiply that by 100 just to see the relative difference
as a percentage of timing versus timing one.
And then we're going to return all named top for instance and we're going to round with timing one to
one decimal point.
Then we'll round the timing 2 to 1 decimal point then we'll round the timing to minus timing 1 to 1
decimal point on round 3 that to 1 decimal point and then we'll round the relative difference to care.
So that's all named topwater then we'll just return timings.
So if I compare let's say timings let's say My first the all time timing that I did took one second
the other one took two seconds then I'll get back.
The absolute difference was one second and the relative difference was 100 percent.
This was a 100 percent increase to go from one to two.
But I also want the absolute difference because you know just as we saw with decimals and when we're
looking at you know comparing things to each other with floats as well.
Absolute and relative you know is important because a relative difference of 100 percent when my absolute
differences you know a microsecond doesn't affect my timing much for my program if my program takes
10 minutes to run saving a microsecond isn't going to have much effect.
So hence why I want both the absolute and the relative.
All right so now what I want to do is I'm going to do some tests and I'm going to set up a variable
for a global variable of 10 million.
So we're going to run these tests 10 million times and calculate the timings to run 10 million iterations
of the same thing.
So let's do the first one.
So the first one I'm going to basically hear Let me just type it out I guess we're going to do timing
using the fully qualified module dot symbol.
OK.
So let's go ahead and import math.
I know it's a really important but just to be consistent and self-contained here will import math.
Remember that doesn't really incur much of a performance hit since the math modules are really loaded
Nagan reloaded.
Let's start our performance counters and let's repeat this.
So this loop for underscores I don't really care about the loop variable here.
We're going to repeat this 10 million times right.
Test repeats is set to 10 million.
And what are we going to do.
We're just going to calculate map square root of two.
I'm not going to store it in a variable I'm not interested in timing that.
I just want to know how long does it take to call that square root function using the fully qualified
module dot symbol.
So here the end is counter-offered again and then I'll make a variable out of this elapsed fully qualified
and minus stuff.
OK.
And then let's go ahead and print and I'll use the F string that's in 3.6 which means I don't have to
use the dot format.
I do have a video about that later in the extra section that talks about f strings basically.
Instead of saying elapsed zero dot format and then pass that in the format.
I can actually interpretated right here.
So this elapsed fully qualified because it's in these braces over here is going to refer to this variable
over here.
So let's go ahead and run that.
And it took two seconds to run.
OK.
So now the next one I want to do is timing using a directly imported symbol name.
Now the words I'm going to say from math important is security.
So that's what I'm going to do.
So now security is in my global namespace and we're going to do the same thing as you're going to copy
paste that.
But now I don't have to say map that square root of two I can just call it directly and this one is
going to be elapsed direct symbol.
I just want to keep those timings around because I'm going to want to then compare them and they will
print that out.
OK.
So let's run that and it took 1.6 six seconds.
So a little faster but let's take a look at the compared timings.
So the first timing is elapsed fully qualified and the second timing is the elapsed direct symbol.
So comparing the timings we can see that it was 0.4 seconds faster and you know 18 19 percent faster.
But this is over 10 million iterations.
I had a cold ten million times the square root functions in order to get a zero point for less than
a half of a second difference.
So this is why you know if your code is going to run the square root function you know a few thousand
times.
Don't worry about this right.
This has absolutely no impact on it at all.
Right.
If we change this let's say to 10000 and rerun all this you'll see the absolute differences.
Zero.
I mean it's not even a you know measured in tenths of seconds.
Relatively speaking it's still about 20 percent but the absolute difference is what matters when we're
running the code.
So let me go back to 10 million and let's rerun that so we get the timings OK.
So the next thing I want to do and I need to baseline this because I want to put an import inside a
function.
But of course if I call square root using a function now I've got the overhead of calling the function.
So I want to basically you know do a baseline by timing
using a function kind of Raptor's cave.
And this will be around the fully qualified symbol.
So what are we going to do.
I'm going to invoke math again.
I know I've imported it.
I just want to be self-consistent self-contained here and here.
That's all the function is going to do.
It's going to call square root of two.
OK.
So on doing is I'm just putting a function wrapper around it and then I'm going to start my performance
counter.
I'm going to take exactly what I had over here.
I'm going to copy paste that.
But now instead of calling math a square root of two I'm just going to call func instead.
K and this is going to be the elapsed phunk fully qualified just to indicate that this is via the function.
So let's go ahead and call that.
And you can see there was definitely some overhead because 3.3 seconds versus 2.0 6 again over 10 million
iterations.
This was one second slower over 10 million iterations.
Next let's do the same thing.
But here what we're going to do is we're going to say from math important.
Square root.
So again I know we already have the square root in there.
I just want to re-emphasize that with imported Square directly into our global namespace and then this
is here's we're going to change the name to direct symbol K and then we'll print out direct symbol.
So I'm doing the same thing that we did in the previous two tests except I've wrapped them around functions.
OK so if we execute that we get two point eight seconds.
Now again we can compare timings so timings between this one over here.
And this one over here which should be faster time.
So again our absolute difference 0.4 seconds.
So yeah the total elapsed time took longer but the absolute difference was still about the same zero
you know half less than half a second between using square roots versus using Maff out square root.
OK but now we have a baseline for doing either of those inside wrapped inside a function.
And again the you know percentage difference relative 12 you know we've been hovering between 12 and
so as you can see again for 10 million iterations I want to keep repeating this is for 10 million iterations.
It's you know it's not a big deal.
Now let's go ahead and now do the nested impulse
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to take this exact same code but I'm not going to put the imposed
math here.
I'm going to put the import math inside the function right.
And then this function is going to be called 10 million times so it's going to run this import math
10 million times.
So I'm going to call this elapsed nested fully qualified.
And so we have to change that to nested as well.
Let's go ahead and run this
k.
So that took now 5 seconds to run.
So let's take a look at let's compare our timings between the this one and this one.
So I'm going to compare the timings between the elapsed phunk fully qualified and the one that's also
function based but uses the nested Imphal.
What's the comparison.
Well it was 54 percent slower.
So it was definitely slow.
But the in terms of absolute differences it took two seconds more to run less than two seconds.
Again over ten million iterations if your code is running you know five or six times you get zero difference.
So again you know from a timing perspective it really depends on how often you're calling that function.
In general for functions that don't get called very often in the during the lifetime of your application
the performance impact is negligible.
But again it's based on your circumstances.
However this is still a bad idea from a readability standpoint you'd rather not do that.
But if you do it and maybe that's there's a reason why you want to do it.
Maybe you're trying to avoid a circular reference.
You know that can happen then it's OK to do it.
There's nothing wrong with doing that.
It's just that it's a little slower.
Not much it's a little slower.
You know over billions of repetitions.
Sure it's going to be you know massively slower it's going to be you know 50 to 60 percent slow.
Now let's look at the other one where instead of doing impled math we're going to say in both math Dotts
square root and then we'll call Square directly.
So we're going to say from math Imphal square roots and then we can just use the square root function
directly.
So now what is it going to do it's going to put square root into the local namespace of funk and then
we call square root.
It's going to use square root from the local namespace of func and so here this will be the direct that
I call it.
So I remain consistent direct symbol.
OK.
And we'll just have to replace that.
And let's see how long that takes to run then to take a little while longer.
This one is actually quite a bit slower.
Which is surprising because we would have expected this to be faster.
This one over here because this one has to go look up math in the local namespace and then it has to
look up as Q And T from math namespace here we would have thought that while it's getting square root
you know directly from the math.
Why is that so much slower.
And you can see that's go ahead and compare the timings between the two.
That is quite a bit slower than even the nested arm fully qualified.
So let's do nested fully qualified here versus the nested direct symbol.
And we can see it's 200 percent slower.
OK so now we're getting into the territory of things are really slowing down.
Even with 10 million iterations I had a 10 second difference.
That's that's starting to hurt.
Why is it much slower.
Well you need to think about what this is doing versus what this was doing here.
Every time we call the function it has to go and look in small details to see if math is there.
Every time we run this function it does the same thing.
So that's all equal then.
This one here is going to go and put in the math directly in our local namespace.
This one is going to have to go look up what square root is forced and put that into our local namespace.
This one didn't have to do that extra step.
It had to look it up.
Sure but it didn't have to replace essentially the value in our dictionary.
That is our local namespace here it has to replace as courante in our dictionary.
Every time the function runs because every time the function runs we have a new local namespace and
it has to go and get the math module get the square root function and put the square root function into
the namespace here.
It just has to get the math and put that into the namespace.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.